# Exploring Human Mobility: A Time-Informed Approach to Pattern Mining and Sequence Similarity
in this paper we proposed two methods, one is the Time-informed pattern mining (TiPam), which is used for frequent pattern mining of time-informed sequences, another is the T-LCS which is used to calculate the similarity score between two sequences.

## Instructions
### TiPam
`Time-informed pattern mining (TiPam).ipynb` is the code for frequent pattern mining of time-informed sequences. To demonstrate the method, Since the real activity sequences cannot be made publicly available due to confidentiality protection, you can find a sample dataset at the end of the code, this is a mocked temporal interval sequences data. By using the TiPam, we can extract frequent patterns with different lengthes, and the extracted patterns have the information on median start time and duration of activities. For your own mobility data, you can use TiPam to extract hierarchical representation of frequent mobility patterns, similar shown in Figure 5 below:
### T-LCS
`T-LCS.ipynb` is the code for calculating the similarity score between two sequences. To validate the proposed T-LCS method, we presents the benchmark data of six sequences (S1, S2, S3, S4, S5, and S6) used to calculate the similarity scores. S1 is a typical timestamped semantic sequence, with other sequences representing modified versions of S1. These sequences are specially designed according to designed similarities. the benchmark data is shown in the paper in Table1(a)
The T-LCS is used to calculate the similarity between two sequences, then for the Individual Regularity (IR) and inter-personal similarity (IS), they are based on the calculation of the sequence similarity (SS) value for each pair of sequences. please refer to the . then for a dataset, which has a set of users who have a set of sequences, you can calculate their Individual Regularities and the distribution, like figure 4. And then based on the inter-personal similarity, you can use clustering algorithms, such as OPTICS, to group these persons into groups, like the figure 7 shows.
